.TH vncconfig 1 "03 Mar 2005" "RealVNC Ltd" "Virtual Network Computing"
.SH NAME
vncconfig \- configure and control a VNC server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
.br
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
.B \-connect
.IR host [: port ]
.br
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
.B \-disconnect
.br
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
.RB [ -set ] 
.IR Xvnc-param = value " ..."
.br
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
.B \-list
.br
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
\fB\-get\fP \fIXvnc-param\fP
.br
.B vncconfig
.RI [ parameters ] 
\fB\-desc\fP \fIXvnc-param\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vncconfig
is used to configure and control a running instance of Xvnc, or any other X
server with the VNC extension.  Note that it cannot be used to control VNC
servers prior to version 4.

When run with no options, it runs as a kind of "helper" application for Xvnc.
Its main purpose when run in this mode is to support clipboard transfer to and
from the VNC viewer(s).  Note that without a running instance of
\fBvncconfig\fP there will be no clipboard support.  It puts up a window with
some checkboxes which can be used to disable clipboard transfers if required
(in the future there may be more functions available from this window).  The
\fB-nowin\fP flag can be used if you always want clipboard support but don't
wish to clutter the desktop with this window - alternatively the \fB-iconic\fP
option can be used to make it iconified by default.

When run in any other mode, \fBvncconfig\fP is a one-shot program used to
configure or control Xvnc as appropriate.  It can be used to tell Xvnc to
connect or disconnect from listening viewers, and to set and retrieve Xvnc's
parameters.

Note that the DISPLAY environment variable or the \fB\-display\fP option
must be set as appropriate to control Xvnc.  If you run it on an ordinary X
server (or on a version 3 Xvnc) you will get an error message saying that there
is no VNC extension.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-connect \fIhost\fP[:\fIport\fP]
Tells an Xvnc server to make a "reverse" connection to a listening VNC viewer
(normally connections are made the other way round - the viewer connects to the
server). \fIhost\fP is the host where the listening viewer is running. If it's
not listening on the default port of 5500, you can specify \fIhost:port\fP
instead.

.TP
.B \-disconnect
This causes Xvnc to disconnect from all viewers so that the VNC desktop is not
displayed anywhere.

.TP
[\fB-set\fP] \fIXvnc-param\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Sets an Xvnc parameter to the given value.  Note that some of Xvnc's parameters
are read only once at startup so that changing them in this way may not have
any effect.

.TP
.B \-list
Lists all the parameters supported by Xvnc.

.TP
.B \-get \fIXvnc-param\fP
Prints the current value of the given Xvnc parameter.

.TP
.B \-desc \fIXvnc-param\fP
Prints a short description of the given Xvnc parameter.

.SH PARAMETERS
.B vncconfig
also has parameters of its own which can be set on the command line.  These
should not be confused with Xvnc's parameters which are manipulated with the
\fB-set\fP, \fB-get\fP, \fB-list\fP and \fB-desc\fP options.

Parameters can be turned on with -\fIparam\fP or off with -\fIparam\fP=0.
Parameters which take a value can be specified as -\fIparam\fP \fIvalue\fP.
Other valid forms are \fIparam\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP -\fIparam\fP=\fIvalue\fP
--\fIparam\fP=\fIvalue\fP.  Parameter names are case-insensitive.

.TP
.B \-display \fIXdisplay\fP
Specifies the Xvnc server to control.

.TP
.B \-nowin
When run as a "helper" app, don't put up a window.

.TP
.B \-iconic
When run as a "helper" app, make the window iconified at startup.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vncpasswd (1),
.BR vncviewer (1),
.BR vncserver (1),
.BR Xvnc (1)
.br
http://www.realvnc.com

.SH AUTHOR
Tristan Richardson, RealVNC Ltd.

VNC was originally developed by the RealVNC team while at Olivetti Research Ltd
/ AT&T Laboratories Cambridge.  It is now being maintained by RealVNC Ltd.  See
http://www.realvnc.com for details.
