#summary How our community works
#labels Featured

= Community =

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== About ==

Our community is a benevolent dictatorship, meaning that our project leader has the final say on all major decisions, however our leader will always do what is best for the community. The key word is, benevolent; meaning that, our dictator is not a tyrant. This is primarily because the project is very "forkable" (this project is it's self a fork); so if the majority disagree, they will fork into a new project. This is common to most small open source communities.

Having a dictator is great for a small project like ours, because it stops our aims from deviating off course, and helps to avoid limitless feature creep. Once our project expands and becomes very large, we may elect to have a consensus based democracy with voting and so on. However, this is not necessary for the time being.

We do not currently have a website because our immediate goal is to make the application easier to use before promoting it to our end users. Currently, most of our end users are fairly technical. For technical users, the best place to start is our [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/ community portal].

== Communication ==

Our most active communication channel is our [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus discussion group]; both users and developers should post questions there. We also have an IRC channel for quick questions, but this should not be used for in-depth discussion.

  * Community portal: http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/
  * Discussion group: http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus
  * IRC channel: #synergy-plus on irc.freenode.net:8001

== Newcomers ==

Developers who are new to our project, should start by checking out the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/list issues list]; fixing minor bugs is a good way to get familiar with the code.

Before asking questions on the [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus mailing list] it is often best to _search_ the mailing list before hand to avoid repeated questions. We also encourage that people quickly look over past threads in our mailing list, to become familiar with how questions are asked, and possibly to contribute to past discussions where new light may be useful. However, we strongly encourage that old discussions are not opened up unless the person really knows what they're talking about.

There is no formal procedure for becoming a project member (getting commit access). The length of time before a newcomer is added to the project, usually depends their interaction with the mailing list. If the user looks to have a good understanding and we agree with their goals, then we may give commit access sooner. As our project grows, we may review patches initially and give commit access later.

  * Read the coding syntax guide on the [SpecImp Implementation] page.
  * The [DeveloperFAQ Developer FAQ] may be useful.
  * Do not put your name at the top of source code files.

== Procedures ==

=== Rejecting Features ===

From time to time users will have a feature which they wish to have implemented. This may be a feature we do or do not want. If the feature is outside of the scope of the project, then the user should be politely told that the feature will not be implemented.

  {user-name}, thank you for your feature request. We appreciate your support for our project, and hope you continue to give feedback. However, the feature you requested is outside the scope of our specification, and so have decided not to implement it.

This avoids upsetting potentially useful people that could contribute valuable bug reports and bug fixes. Politeness should be used regardless of if many people have requested the same feature; the user may be unaware of the previous feature requests.

After rejecting the feature, the project member who has done so should update the status to WontFix (and *not* Invalid). The suggested feature should then be added to the [SpecDesign Specification Design] page under _Limit of Scope_.

== Key People ==

  * Project leader: Sorin Sbârnea
  * Original creators: Chris Schoeneman, et al.
  * Specification authors: Nick Bolton, et al.

== Poisonous People ==

Here's an interesting video about poisonous people.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-F-3E8pyjFo"/>