#summary How to build Synergy using Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition
#labels Deprecated

= Target Platforms =

Since applications compiled with this version depend on the [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=A5C84275-3B97-4AB7-A40D-3802B2AF5FC2&displaylang=en Visual C++ 2008 Runtime], the binaries that are generated run on the following platforms:

  * Windows 2000 Service Pack 4
  * Windows Server 2003
  * Windows Server 2008
  * Windows Vista
  * Windows XP

= Prerequisites =

  * Microsoft Windows XP SP2/Server 2003 SP2 or above
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/express/vc/ Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition]

The installer comes with its own header files; you do _not_ need to install the Windows SDK separately for building 32-bit binaries.

= Installation =

Install the [http://www.microsoft.com/express/vc/ Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition], which you can download and register for free.

You do not need to install Silverlight or SQL Server for building Synergy+. If you have no need for these applications, you can safely uncheck the options in the installer.

After completing the installation, run the IDE using the startup menu entry. No further setup should be necessary.

= Compiling =

Open the file `vs2008\synergy-plus.sln` in the source tree. This will open a solution with the following projects:
  * *libsynergy:* Shared codebase for the other projects
  * *launcher:* The Synergy+ launcher (synergy.exe)
  * *client:* The Synergy+ client (synergyc.exe)
  * *server:* The Synergy+ server (synergys.exe)
  * *hook:* Hooking library that the server uses to monitor input events (synrgyhk.dll)

Clicking `Build > Build Solution` will attempt to generate the binaries using the default settings. The executables are placed in `vs2008\Debug` or `vs2008\Release`, depending on which setting is enabled.

= Debugging =

The Synergy executables are, by default, configured to execute with the `--no-daemon` option when run from Visual C++ so they can be debugged from within the IDE. They need a valid configuration file, however, which has to be created using the launcher first.