#summary Common questions and answers for new developers
#labels Phase-QA,Featured

*Page maintainer:* [Members FAQ Manager]

If you are an end-user, please refer to [UserFAQ], as this FAQ is intended for the software development team.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Questions =

== Q. I'm new, how do I get started? ==

First, you'll need to get your hands on the [SourceCode source code], and then you can [Compiling compile] it. If you're having any problems, then please [Contact contact us].

== Q. How do I start synergys and synergyc directly with Visual Studio? ==

Right click either the synergys or synergyc projects, and select Properties. Click Debugging, and add the following to the Command Arguments textbox:

*for synergys:*
{{{
--no-daemon --debug DEBUG1 --name my-computer-1 --address :24800
}}}
Replace 'my-computer-1' with your computer name.

*for synergyc:*
{{{
--no-daemon --debug DEBUG1 my-computer-1
}}}
Replace 'my-computer-1' with your server's hostname.

== Q. How do I install the Windows service with a non-default bugging level? ==

From the Windows config GUI, select the debug level (on the main screen) before installing the service. This stores the command line arguments in the Windows registry - to change the debug level after service is installed, uninstall the service, select new log level and reinstall service.

== Q. What is your C++ code style guide? ==

This can be found in our [Specification#4.2._Code_style specification].

== Q. Why do I get an XTest error when compiling on Ubuntu? ==

Ensure that the libXtst-dev or libXtst-devel package is installed.

  * [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus/browse_thread/thread/75f1d29106a90b04/ee67a56d3240ed08?lnk=gst&q=xtest#ee67a56d3240ed08 Discuss: XTest library]
  * [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus/browse_thread/thread/97b7f2cacd5a4c3/3875900c14f136c0?lnk=gst&q=xtest#3875900c14f136c0 Discuss: configure: error: You must have the XTest library to build synergy]

== Q. Why do I get "HTTP Error 405: Method Not Allowed" when using hg push? ==

Use https instead of http.

== Q. How do I submit patches? ==

Use `hg export`, to export your changes. Rumor is that these are then easily applied using patch(1), so, .patch files are welcome!

Submit patches to the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/list issue list] as an attachment. If an issue does not exist for your patch, please [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/entry create a new issue]. If you submit to the mailing list, it may get missed. When you submit your patch, if you want it to be discussed, please open a new mailing list thread and link to the issue containing the patch.

Once you submit your patch, it is then the responsibility of the [Members patch manager] to add this to the [PatchRecord] page.

  * [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus/browse_thread/thread/b1dea506278ff7fc/8ff4d766fe442854?lnk=gst&q=patches#8ff4d766fe442854 Discuss: How do I create and submit patches?]

== Q. How do I make emacs use your indentation style? ==

You could add this to the end of your `.emacs` file.
{{{
; Visual Studio like indentation
(defun my-c-mode-common-hook ()
	;; my customizations for all of c-mode, c++-mode, objc-mode, java-mode
	(c-set-offset 'substatement-open 0)
	;; other customizations can go here

	(setq c++-tab-always-indent t)
	(setq c-basic-offset 4)                  ;; Default is 2
	(setq c-indent-level 4)                  ;; Default is 2

	(setq tab-stop-list '(4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 48 52 56 60))
	(setq tab-width 4)
	(setq indent-tabs-mode t)  ; use spaces only if nil
)
(add-hook 'c-mode-common-hook 'my-c-mode-common-hook)
}}}
This will make your indentation style similar to that in Visual Studio.

== Q. What is the `ARCH` macro for? ==

The `ARCH` macro is defined in `lib/arch/CArch.h` and accesses a static singleton pointer for the _architecture_ tools.

For example, ARCH->addrToString(CArchNetAddress) will convert an address instance to an IP address as type std::string.

To use the ARCH macro, `#include "CArch.h"`

== Q. How do I commit a patch using someone else's name? ==

=== Option 1 ===

Apply the patch using `hg qnew`, and specify the username.

{{{
hg qnew -u <your email address> file.patch 
}}}

=== Option 2 ===

Alternatively, if using `patch` instead, you can commit using someone else's name. Lets say my `.hg/hgrc` looks something like this:

{{{
[paths]
default = https://nick.bolton.uk:hack-me@synergy-plus.googlecode.com/hg/

[ui]
username = nick.bolton.uk
}}}

And I run these two commands:

{{{
# hg commit -u richard.stallman -m "The Church of Emacs blesses this commit."
# hg push
}}}

This means that `richard.stallman` will appear as the _author_ on the change list, and my name will appear nowhere. 