#summary Member guidelines for dealing with issues
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Creating Issues =

If you discover an issue in Synergy+, please report it through our [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/list issue tracker]. Issues can be bug reports or feature requests. Please refrain from having lengthy discussions in the issue tracker, and instead [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus/post create a new thread in the mailing list] as this will make it easier community members to contribute, making it more likely for the issue to be resolved effectively. Once creating a new mailing list thread, make sure the issue number is referenced.

= Moderating Issues =

These are guidelines for members who moderate issues.

== Accepting ==

Consider the following, or some variant:

  Thanks for submitting a new issue. I have marked the issue as accepted, and we will keep you informed of it's progress.

Then set the status to `Accepted`, and choose a [Milestones milestone]. Ensure that feature requests are marked as `Enhancement`, not `Defect`. It's OK to say you'll keep them informed, because the system will do this for them automatically when updates are added. At this point, remove your username from the owner field.

== Rejecting ==

Users will sometimes have a feature request, which may be outside the scope of our specification. In this case, we should politely tell the user that the feature will not be implemented.

  Thanks for the feature request. Unfortunately, the feature you requested is outside the scope of our specification. Please feel free to suggest other ideas.

Then set the status to `WontFix` (and *not* `Invalid`). Only set an issue to `invalid` if it's garbage or has empty text. At this point, remove your username from the owner field.

== Reviewing ==

Some times it's not possible to determine if an issue is acceptable given the initial information; so in this case we ask the user for more details and set the status to `Reviewed`. Make sure you set yourself as the owner so that you can update the status when they respond.

== Duplicates ==

New users don't have the experience we have. Therefore, its not their fault if they submit a duplicate bug report. This situation should be met with a polite message.

  Thanks for submitting a new issue. Would you mind starring issue {issue-id}? It looks like the same problem.

*Note:* {issue-id} is a number.

Then set the status to duplicate. If the user is adamant that the issue is not a duplicate, then give them the benefit of the doubt.

== Patches ==

If someone submits a patch (either with the original issue, or as a reply), then set the status to `GotPatch` and give ownership to the patch manager. This then prompts our patch manager to review the patch and commit it to the trunk if it's acceptable. Assuming this fixes the issue, the patch manager should set the status to `MaybeFixed`.

== Swearing ==

Clearly swearing is not acceptable in a professional community such as ours, however we should be fairly lenient and quickly "nip it in the bud" if it ever occurs, then move on to responding to what the user said.

  Please note that we don't allow swearing in our community. Now that that's out the way, you have some good points in your issue *(and so on...)*