#summary Project members (contact details and positions)
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

This page is used to maintain a list of project members. For a list of non-members who have contributed source code, refer to the [Contributors] page. Members who have contributed code are not listed on the contributors page, but on the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/source/list change list] instead.

|| *Name* || *Alias* || *Role* || *Contact* ||
|| Sorin Sbarnea || [http://code.google.com/u/sorin.sbarnea/ sorin.sbarnea], Sorin || Project Leader || Gmail ||
|| Nick Bolton || [http://code.google.com/u/nick.bolton.uk/ nick.bolton.uk], nbolton, Nick || Manager (Issue, Doc, FAQ) || Gmail, IRC ||
|| Chris Schoeneman || [https://sourceforge.net/users/crs23/ crs23], crs || Honorary Member || [https://sourceforge.net/sendmessage.php?touser=21565 SourceForge] ||
|| Syed Amer Gilani || syed.a...@gilani.eu, Amer || Patch Manager || Gmail ||
|| _Unknown_ || ambros || Contributor || _Unknown_ ||
|| Christian Masciulli || christian.masciulli || Contributor || _Unknown_ ||
|| _Unknown_ || thermionix || Contributor || _Unknown_ ||
|| _Unknown_ || sveith || Contributor || _Unknown_ ||

*Note:* If you have an "_Unknown_" next to your name or alias, please complete the information if you wish to do so.

= Contact =

To contact a member at their Gmail address, use _google-username_@gmail.com. If you are a non-member and are asking a question, please consider posting your message in the [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus discussion group] (mailing list) if appropriate.

You are welcome to ask questions in our IRC channel (#synergy-plus on irc.freenode.net:8001) or message us privately if necessary. Idlers are also welcome.

= Roles/Positions =

Some members have official roles which tie them to certain duties.

== Project Leader ==

  * Ensures the project stays within specification.
  * Has the last say on all major decisions.
  * Decides who gets to be a project member.
  * Assigns roles/positions to members.

== Issue Manager ==

  * Ensures that all new issues are greeted with a friendly message.
  * Assigns issues to the appropriate people and updates with correct status.
  * Decides whether an issue is invalid, duplicate or accepted.

== Patch Manager ==

  * Maintains the [PatchRecord patch record] page, adding new patches as they are submitted.
  * Supervises import of new [https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=59275&atid=490469 patches from the orginal Synergy].

== FAQ Manager ==

  * Maintains the [DeveloperFAQ developer] and [UserFAQ user] FAQs.
  * Decides the order of importance of questions.

== Documentation Manager ==

  * Maintains the [SpecToc specification] document.
  * Responsible for ensuring wiki pages are correct and up to date.
  * Creates new wiki pages as is required.

= Other Details =

== Sorin Sbarnea ==

  * Coding (VC8/VC9) and testing on Windows
  * Coding and testing on Mac OS X (less frequently)
  * Original creator of the Windows installer

== Nick Bolton ==

  * Programmer on Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X
  * IRC user: nbolton (freenode.net)
  * Google user: nick.bolton.uk