#summary A record of all patches, to ensure they are dealt with
#labels Deprecated

*Attention!* This page is deprecated because it's not a very efficient way of tracking patches. Instead we are planning to use [http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/MqExtension MqExtension].

This page is maintained by the [Members patch manager].

The names mentioned on this page are from [Contributors contributors], who do not have commit access to the source code. Contributions by [Members members] are not mentioned here, but can be seen in the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/source/list source changes list]. We take patches very seriously, and when a new patch is submitted either by the issue manager or mailing list, we record it's progress here.

*Note:* Latest patches are added to the top.

|| *Date* || *Submitter* || *Status* || *Fixes* || *Filename* || *Notes* ||
|| 2009-06-13 || edw...@carrel.org || *Applied*|| Issue 47 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=6552712848806845228&name=server_keyboard.patch server_keyboard.patch] || still problems with the shift key ||
|| 2009-06-04 || edw...@carrel.org || *Applied* || Issue 48 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=-88088185004970363&name=screen_res.patch screen_res.patch] || Patch applied, needs verifying ||
|| 2009-06-04 || edw...@carrel.org || *Applied*|| Issue 47 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=-115961204446587406&name=keystroke.patch keystroke.patch] || bernd.kilga still getting sticky key issues ||
|| 2009-05-20 || azanar (edw...@carrel.org) || Succeed || Issue 48 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=8377230555086405433&name=screen-fix.patch screen-fix.patch] || Followed by screen_res.patch (2009-06-04) ||
|| 2009-05-17 || bernd.kilga || Ongoing || Issue 47 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=2061853930328626085&name=COSXKeyState.patch COSXKeyState.patch] || Followed by keystroke.patch (2009-06-04) ||
|| 2009-04-11 || azanar (edw...@carrel.org) || *Applied* || Issue 33 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=3892872862794053165&name=synergy.10.5.patch synergy.10.5.patch] || Sorin applied patch, with ongoing issues ||
|| 2009-04-02 || gbonvehi || Accepted || Issue 29 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=7047378601864794280&name=onecharmsgs.patch onecharmsgs.patch] || TODO: Incorporate into issue 5 fix (M2) ||
|| 2009-03-13 || gregap || Accepted || Issue 13 || [http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/issues/attachment?aid=4707572031466542369&name=synergy_rare_key_problem.patch synergy_rare_key_problem.patch] || TODO: Incorporate into issue 5 fix (M2) ||

== Why is this page important? ==

When a non-member submits a patch, and it goes ignored because we're all too busy, this means we risk upsetting a potentially valuable future member. Clearly this is not good. 

Therefore, the role of *patch manager* exists to stop this from happening; the patch manager is responsible for noticing patches submitted either in the mailing list or issue tracker, and recording them on this page. However, responsibility doesn't mean that the patch manager must actually update the page, as this can be delegated. Likewise with applying the patch, the patch manager does not have to do this them self, and most of the time it should be delegated.