#summary A guide on obtaining and extracting the source code.
#labels Featured

This page explains how to obtain and use the source code.

= Option 1 (tar.gz) =

Recommended for: *End-users (advanced)*

Check the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/downloads/list Downloads] page to see if there's a tar.gz available.
Then, extract the archive using `tar` with the `xfvz` options.

For example:

{{{
wget http://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/files/synergy-plus-1.3.4.tar.gz
tar xfvz synergy-plus-1.3.4.tar.gz
}}}

*Important!* If you download the source code for 1.3.4, then please follow the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/wiki/CompilingAutomake Automake compile instructions]. However, if you're contributing to our project, we advise that you download the latest version via our Mercurial repository (option 2).

= Option 2 (Mercurial) =

Recommended for: *Developers (more advanced)*

== Install Mercurial =

Developers should access the source code via our Mercurial (hg) repository. Mercurial can be installed on Linux, Windows and Mac.

=== Windows ===
Download and install the Mercurial [http://mercurial.berkwood.com/ Windows installer]. There is also an optional GUI tool available ([http://bitbucket.org/tortoisehg/stable/wiki/install TortoiseHG]) which may make some tasks easier.

=== Mac OS X 11.5.x ===

The easiest way, is to install [http://www.macports.org/ macports], then run the following command from the terminal.
{{{
sudo port install mercurial
}}}

=== Ubuntu 9.04 ===
{{{
sudo apt-get install mercurial
}}}

=== Fedora 10 ===
{{{
sudo yum install mercurial
}}}

=== OpenSUSE 11.1 ===
{{{
su
yast2 -i mercurial
}}}

=== Mandriva One 2009 ===
{{{
su
urpmi mercurial
}}}

=== !OpenSolaris 2009.06 ===
{{{
su
pkg install SUNWmercurial
}}}

== Download the Code ==

Once Mercurial is installed, run the following command to download the source code to a folder named `synergy-plus` (`hg` will create the directory for you).

{{{
hg clone https://synergy-plus.googlecode.com/hg/ synergy-plus 
}}}

Project members with commit access may want update their `.hg/hgrc` file:

{{{
[paths]
default = https://my-username:my-password@synergy-plus.googlecode.com/hg/

[ui]
username = my-username
}}}

== Compile the Code ==

Follow the [Compiling compile] instructions.