#summary Specification: Introduction
#labels Specification,Featured

= Synergy+ Specification =

[SpecToc Table of Contents]

== Introduction ==

Synergy+ allows users to share their mouse and keyboard between multiple computers over a network. Synergy+ can be thought of as a _Software KVM_. A combination of operating systems can be used, such as Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. No special hardware is required to use Synergy+, just a local area network (LAN).

Synergy+ is a fork of Synergy2, meaning that our code is based on Synergy2 but with our own enhancements. The initial revision of Synergy was created on May 13, 2001. We hope to merge with the Synergy2 project soon, and use the original Synergy name. This documentation will refer to our version of Synergy/Synergy2, as Synergy+ to avoid confusion between the 3 projects. Our aim is not to be separate from the original projects, but to collaborate with the original authors, and keep Synergy alive.

=== Features ===

Synergy+ has a number of great features.

  * Sharing of mouse and keyboard over a local area network
  * Cross-platform support (Windows, Linux and Mac)
  * Free open source software
  * Online support community run by volunteers

=== Objectives ===

The current objectives of the Synergy+ project, in order of importance.

  # Fix all important bugs (http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/list).
  # Current operating system support (especially for Windows).
  # A common user interface to all operating systems.
  # More intuitive setup/configuration and troubleshooting.

=== Community ===

See the [Community] page.

=== This Document ===

This specification contains:

  * The goals of this project
  * Important current bugs
  * System design and architecture
  * Future features and enhancements

This document is not an installation guide or user guide.

=== Terminology ===

|| *Term* || *Meaning* ||
|| Synergy	|| The original version of Synergy, replaced by Synergy2 ||
|| Synergy2 || A fork of Synergy, which is now seen as the official version ||
|| Synergy+ || A fork of of Synergy2, which we hope to merge with Synergy2 ||
|| GPL || GNU General Public License ||
|| FOSS || Free Open Source Software ||
|| Client || An instance of synergyc (the Synergy Client) ||
|| Server || An instance of synergys (the Synergy Server) ||