#summary Frequently asked questions for our end-users
#labels Featured,Deprecated

*Page maintainer:* [Members FAQ Manager]

This FAQ is for end-users. If you are a developer, please refer to [DeveloperFAQ].

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Questions =

== Q. How do I install the application? ==

Download and run the latest installer from the [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/downloads/list downloads page]. Advanced users can follow our [Compiling compile instructions].

== Q. How do I configure the application? ==

Windows users can use the Synergy GUI application which is installed by default. Linux and Mac OS X users should take a look at [RelatedProjects], which suggests some 3rd party applications that can be used to configure Synergy+. Advanced users can follow our [Setup setup instructions].

== Q. How do I get help with problems? ==

If you're having problems, please either post a new message in our [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus user mailing list], or if you think you've found a bug, please create a [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/entry new issue].

== Q. How do I send you guys debug output? ==

When reporting a bug or trying to solve a problem, it's always useful get the debug output from `synergyc` or `synergys`. To do this, run the application from the command prompt and use the `--debug DEBUG1` argument (or `DEBUG2` for extra verbosity). From v1.3.5 onward, up to `DEBUG5` is supported. On unix platform this will be sent to console, but on Windows you'll need to use the special console window (accessed via the system tray). From v1.3.5 onward, you can use the `--log <file>` argument to log to a file. Please see [http://pastebin.com/f75749e9a debug output example] to make sure you're doing it right.

Once you've got the debug output in a *text file*, please *attach( this to the appropriate issue, or [http://code.google.com/p/synergy-plus/issues/entry create a new one] if necessary.

== Q. How do I lock the mouse on one screen? ==

This is useful for when playing computer games or other full screen applications. The `Scroll Lock` key can be used to prevent the mouse switching input to another screen.

*Note:* For users that don't have a scroll lock key, Issue 61 has been created.

== Q. What's the difference between Synergy+ and original Synergy? ==

Take a look at our [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synergy%2B wikipedia article]. This explains that "Synergy+ was created as a maintenance fork for the purpose of fixing bugs inherited from the original version." The article also goes into a little more detail on what happened to the original Synergy. We're hoping to merge the two projects, but we've had little luck getting in contact with the original author, Chris Schoeneman.

== Q. What's the difference between Synergy+ and a KVM? ==

The biggest difference is that a KVM handles video, and Synergy+ does not. To use our application, you must have a display for each computer. Other than that, Synergy+ is better because you don't need to press a button to change input focus (just move your mouse off the edge of your screen).

== Q. How secure is your application? ==

Well, not very, but we're working on it. One of our targets is to make Synergy+ run over an encrypted connection. You're safe to use Synergy+ if you're on a network you trust, such as a LAN which is protected from the internet using a firewall. See issue 3 for more details.

== Q. Are there any plans to improve the Windows GUI? ==

Yes indeed! Take a look at issue 27. We're hoping to have this in place by version 1.4.0 on all platforms.

== Q. Why do I get "This application has failed to start..." error? ==

_The application has failed to start because the application configuration is incorrect. Reinstalling the application may fix the problem._

The installer does not currently include the Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 Redistributable Package. Please download either the [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=9b2da534-3e03-4391-8a4d-074b9f2bc1bf&displaylang=en x86] or [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=BD2A6171-E2D6-4230-B809-9A8D7548C1B6&displaylang=en x64] version.